
Billionaire playboy Oliver Queen is discovered on a remote Pacific island, having been shipwrecked for the previous five years. Oliver is welcomed back home to Starling City by his mother Moira, stepfather Walter Steele, younger sister Thea, and best friend Tommy Merlyn. They can sense that Oliver has changed, and try to question him about his time on the island after viewing the numerous scars that have riddled his body.

As Oliver rejoins society, and Merlyn attempts to update him on what has happened in the world the last five years, the pair is abducted by a group of men. With Merlyn unconscious, the group interrogates Oliver about his father, Robert, and what he may have told Oliver before he died. Oliver escapes his restraints and he reveals his formidable combat capability to his captors; killing them to protect his secret. The police investigate the kidnapping, and Oliver informs Detective Quentin Lance, his former girlfriend Laurel's father, that a man in a green hood saved them.

In response to the kidnapping, Moira orders Oliver to take on a bodyguard, John Diggle, for her own peace of mind. Meanwhile, Laurel is revealed to be a lawyer currently working to bring a civil suit against Adam Hunt, a man who swindled millions of dollars from people living in the Glades, a small, crime-ridden neighborhood in Starling City. Laurel discovers that Oliver is alive, and the two meet. Oliver attempts to apologize to Laurel for hurting her five years ago, as he was cheating on her with her sister Sara. Laurel reminds him that his behavior not only broke her heart, but cost the life of Sara, who was on the "Queens Gambit" with him when it sank.

Oliver quickly and easily sneaks away from Diggle and begins building his new hideout and training center. As he prepares for his new life as a hooded vigilante, Oliver reviews Robert's journal, which contains a list of names. Oliver decides to go after Hunt. Disguised in a green hood and leather outfit, Oliver confronts Hunt and orders him to transfer $40 million into an account to be used to pay back the people of the Glades. When Hunt refuses, Oliver sends the transfer anyway before escaping as the police arrive.

Later, it is revealed that Moira ordered Oliver's abduction so she could discover if Robert had told Oliver his secrets. In flashback sequences set during the shipwreck, Oliver recalls Robert sacrificing himself so that there will be enough supplies for Oliver to survive, asking him to correct the mistakes of the family.